Once we've ran the compile command or any command that
is preceded by the compile command,
it will download all of your dependencies to your local storage.
Our local storage is by default in our home directory
under the hidden directory of .m2.
The path is almost identical regardless of your operating system.
I'm using a Mac for some of the recording in this demo and a Windows machine,
and they're both storing Maven artifacts underneath my .m2 directory.
You can see in the image on the left that it has the path
underneath my username, .m2, repository, org, apache, commons,
commons‑lang3, 3.8.1 folder structure.
This is all it does to store artifacts using this info.
Now, this is just a default.
You don't have to have things stored underneath the .m2 directory,
but 95% of people I see use Maven actually just leave it here.
When you upgrade from Maven from time to time to a newer version,
you'd have to go back in there and change the settings that it's stored with.
Now everything we've seen stores this based off of your
groupId, artifactId, and version.
I've repeated this multiple times now, honestly because
I'm just trying to get it to stick.
Everything goes with your groupId, your artifactId, and your version.
As you recall from our demo a minute ago,
it had our groupId for the folder structure, the artifactId for the
subfolder, and then the version for a folder as well.
On top of that,
it uses all of those combined to make that artifact name that's
stored underneath our .m2 repository directory.
This structure helps us avoid duplication.
We don't need to copy these jars into every application we have.
They can all be referenced from this location.
We also don't bloat our Git or Bitbucket or whatever SCM
we're using to store our application.
There's no reason to keep storing these jar files
repetitively in there for each application, we can access them from one central repository.